---
layout: post
title: Amir Desai Blog Post Week 5
excerpt: Week 5 article, Knots
author: amir-desai
pullquote: Scroll down to read
---


After reading the week 5 article, Knots; I was able to uncover many new concepts.

First, being the fact that I thought this article was about wind or aviation, I wasn’t expecting it to be about tying shoes. The author's opening statement of creating a mantra to tie shoes is genius. Especially for a 9 year old sister to teach her brother,who was 3 at the time, how to tie his shoes in a few steps. This to me shows that no matter how young or old you are you can still accomplish anything that you set your mind to. The word mantra can also be tied to the fact that when its repeated it can be very powerful. Think about meditation, typically a mantra or sound that is repeated which brings you into a meditative state.

Carol, the author also states that her teaching her younger brother how to tie his shoes had developed into herself defining how she tied her shoes then into how she tied macrame designs and other artistic knot designs later in her teenage years. This mantra has then developed into a strong skill set of learning how to tie different knots for artistic design, as she then earned the name of “knot lady”. She was able to turn something so basic as tying knots for shoes into a laboratory learning class to teach the next generation how to tie shoes and use it as an art. This was a genius way of teaching the art of knot tying to the public, where she taught kids how to tie knots, not only with respect to art but also math and clothing designs. 

Eventually, in the knot lab, she encountered a girl named Jill who was really invested in learning all there was to know about knot tying. Jill mentioned to Carol that her parents got divorced and that she was in a split custody relationship with her parents. She keeps mentioning the True lover knot, which to me can be used as a symbol, to show that there may be tension in a relationship, but together they can come together to surpass the tension and hopefully come back together. 

Many years later, the two were able to connect and although Jill didn’t remember too much about tying knots, she was still very passionate about this subject. She was able to connect that tying knots wasn't just about art but also math too. In measuring the amount of string, different tensions, playing around with different knot variations and string types. Not only was Jill able to connect with Carol she was able to relieve the tension of her life through this art form. It’s important that we all find ways in our lives to relieve tension to live harmonious lives. So whether that be exercise or picking up a new hobby we all need to find our individual ways of grounding ourselves, and understanding that stress is a part of life that we all have.

For me, I was fortunate enough to find a way to take the stress of attending one of the top business programs in the nation and find ways to “ground” myself. An activity that I really came fond of was welding and crafting things out of wood, as you can literally take a piece of wood or metal and craft it into anything you would like, so either a piece that is for you or an appreciation gift to your parents for raising you. Personally, I was able to welding, carpentry and exercise as a few methods of stress reduction to take a break for a period of time to not think about school and let my creativity get the best of me.

I really hope that everyone can find their own respective ways of relieving stress as it’s a very present thing that if not managed can harm you. So find a hobby or a new skill that you could learn to take the competitive edge off of school for a given period of time. One thing that is critical to relieving stress is ensuring that you do it consistently. 

Lastly, I would like to finish with my concluding statement that Carol is truly a genius for turning something so simple as tying a shoelace into a lab class to release the art of knot tying and critical thinking to connect with her students and find a way to destress in life. So what is your skill, hobby or practice you would like to take on to ensure that stress doesn’t get in the way of your success at school and also life? I encourage you all to find this method and use it for the rest of your life as stress in college is minimal and in the workforce it can be increased.

