---
layout: post
title: Virginia Wolf Blog
excerpt: "A Room of One's Own"
author: Jose-Rojas
pullquote:
--

“A Room of One’s Own” by Virginia Woolf introduces the interpretation of creativity through her point of view. Throughout the excerpt, she presents before the 18th century, why women couldn’t write fiction. Likewise, the authors may have impacted literature within time if it was an opportunity. Evening, women would be highly accomplished within their writing through their style and its theme. Instead, society would be limited to women and patients waiting to take on the opportunity. Mainly, she points out that they set up to fail After all, Virginia is ambitious to express the pain within the history of women into the ability to create through writing. And, she reflects the understanding through her interpretation.  
1. From the summary and analysis, I can agree with the author. Virginia provides facts on creating and becoming an artist. From reading multiple times, I have understood Viginia's idea and I have resonated with it. In a way, the essay reflects how they interpret art and have to criticize an artist's work. In addition, the essay provides me with a mindset that understands creativity and someone's work. In technical, I will be empathic toward the project and its message.

Mainly, I like she imagine how women were limited to writing fiction, and then she explores the many possibilities. She was so creative in creating an imagined woman who was living before the Victorian era. The case scenario is what if Shakespeare had a wonderful sister called Judith She has possibly become a writer because of her interest in becoming a writer. Like her personality, interests, and exploration. Instead, she had to limit the negative parts of her time. Not having a full potential education, and having a culture that indicates women would be low case and would have to work within the time. Cause to view her as half-witch, wizard, or different. Society instinctively discloses the situation. That is provide religion, and support and ultimately murder her. Furthermore, Virginia views the mindset of a woman which is a room of one’s own. Similar to the title provides a greater understanding of her perspective and women. The room reflects inner emotions and thoughts. Through her self-analysis, understands the different points of view of men and women on creativity In fact, she practices her creativity in her writing. She expressed an angry response to the history and the perspective.

In the condition that she faces, Judith is still ambitious for fiction. Her interpretation of how she feels and understands feminism. That society wants women to fail and despise giving a chance. Summary in a word, “That woman, then, who was born with a gift of poetry in the sixteenth century, was an unhappy woman, a woman at strife against herself.”

2. In the essay, she gives the theme of interpretation, independence, and freedom. Writing expression of the author's point of view. The women were not involved in creative writing like poetry, novels, and plays. Through the conditions and the mindset of critical in writing. Women and other people should express their creativity without limited, and criticism. Instead, the artist from the passage should be courageous and grateful to produce creativity. From reading the essay, I would say in one word is the ugly truth of the world. The author highlights strong facts and understanding toward herself and other writers. Evening facing harsh criticism and truths. Another moment of reading, I spot a quote that hit me. I was questioned about his interrogation and conscious was "Sir, a woman's composing is like a dog's walking on his hind legs. It is not done well, but you are surprised to find it done at all."' Again, this quote is not only sexist but awful interpertation towards Judith. From reading the possibility that women can do in the resistance instead of being prejudged and treated differently because of their indifference. After all, the essay passage helps me to understand how to create art through criticism and interpretation. 

3. The essay is so related to me because it had a moment when I felt disconnected from creativity. Likewise, I thought that people would be critical of my drawings. The criticism, I will take in person because it hurt my feelings and my drawing style. All in all, the passage is so related to my creativity and mindset.  

4. After all, I want clarity on her writing style which reminds me. She writes out everything with passages that are in her mind. And I have to reread many times that I have to understand it. After all, she presents an excellent work to express her thoughts and learn on creativity.
