---
layout: post 
title: [Federici Article Response]
author: anna-wrasse
---

In the New York Times’ article, “The Lockdown Showed How the Economy Exploits Women. She Already Knew,” Jordan Kisner interviewed Silvia Federici about how the pandemic revealed issues for which she had already been attempting to raise awareness for several decades: the issues that arise when undervaluing unpaid, domestic labor. 
Federici is an activist who had for many years been championing for acknowledgement and compensation for reproductive labor. Reproductive labor, labor associated with running a household, raising children, and other daily tasks that must be repeated over and over, that go largely unnoticed due to their essential and daily nature. Some examples from the article include weeding the garden, making breakfast, and drawing a bath for the young or elderly. It is quite obvious from looking at the definition of reproductive labor and its examples, that reproductive labor is a highly gendered activity, where women make up a disproportionate number of people who do reproductive labor without getting compensated for it. 
The article goes on to explain that mainstream feminism has often focused solely on helping women push boundaries by breaking into the workforce, climbing the corporate ladder, and widening their circles from the domestic sphere to include the public sphere as well. However, as women have slowly become more and more accepted in the workforce and in the corporate world, the same cannot be said for men’s influence in the domestic sphere. This has led to women having more opportunities to work outside the home and provide for themselves financially. But it also has meant that women with children and families have had to work twice as much, once at their place of employment and then again the moment they return home.
Federici and other leftist feminists argue that capitalism rests entirely upon the shoulders of these women who, day in and day out, perform these services for themselves, their spouses, families, children, and others in their communities, without being paid for it. The exploitation of this labor, Federici argues, is how the (generally) male dominated workforce is able to function. 
Take for example, a working mother and father of two young elementary aged children. The father works a job that requires him to stay late and arrive early. The mother also works, but her hours are not as demanding; therefore, the mother makes the breakfast in the mornings, gets the children dressed and ready for school, and then drives them there and picks them up in the afternoon. Without this hypothetical mother’s unpaid labor, how would the children get to school? How would they eat? How would the father get enough sleep if he were the sole parent? 
The exploitation of reproductive labor was highlighted during the COVID-19 pandemic, as many were forced to work from home or quit their jobs altogether. In this unprecedented time of living in close quarters with young children who normally are at school most of the day, many parents, as well as grandparents and other caretakers, began to fully realize the monumental burden that society often places upon teachers, stay at home parents, and those who are primary caregivers, all whom are often underappreciated and underpaid, if they are paid at all. 
I agree with Federici’s arguments that reproductive labor is essential for a capitalistic society to function. I agree that it is highly underappreciated and unpaid work, and I also agree that society must implement an overhaul of changes in order to actually combat these issues and truly solve them once and for all, rather than put a temporary band-aid on them. I can see examples of many of Federici’s talking points in my own life: my father was a doctor who made a relatively high salary, and therefore, unless my mother wanted to, it was not necessary for her to also work. She was happy to spend more time with me and my younger sister, and so she stayed at home and was able to always be there for us, emotionally and physically, making dinner, doing laundry, taking us to school and picking us up, looking after our numerous pets, and later when we were older, driving us to music lessons, to dance lessons, helping us with homework and applying to college… I loved having her home and certainly would have missed her if she had chosen to work full time or part time. My mom prioritized family over everything else and chose to be a stay at home mother; the choice was not forced upon her. However, there is definitely a cost for any parent who is a stay at home parent, and one of the largest ones that I can see, is that there ends up being less time for yourself because your role is a constant one that you cannot step away from once you drive away from work. 
